docs/kratos/self-service/hooks.mdx, before:

---
id: hooks
title: Hooks
---

Hooks execute logic after a flow (login, registration, settings, ...):

- _Before login:_ is executed when a login flow starts.
- _After login:_ is executed after a successful identification and
  authentication of the user, but before the kratos session is created.
- _Before registration:_ is executed when a registration flow starts.
- _After registration:_ is executed when a registration was successful:
  - _Before persisting:_ runs before the identity is saved in the database.
  - _After persisting:_ runs after the identity was saved in the database.
- _After recovery:_ is executed after a password has been successfully
  recovered.
- _After settings:_ is executed when a settings was successful:
  - _Before persisting:_ runs before the identity is saved in the database.
  - _After persisting:_ runs after the identity was saved in the database.
- _After verification:_ is executed when the verification of an account was
  successful.

There are hooks, which can be configured only for a particular flow (login,
registration, settings, ...) method (password, oidc, profile) and hooks, which
can be configured for all methods of any flow.

To configure hooks for all methods of a particular flow, following pattern must
be used:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    <login|registration|recovery|...>:
      <before|after>:
        hooks:
          - hook: <hook 1 name>
            <hook 1 specific configuration>
          - hook: <hook 2 name>
            <hook 2 specific configuration>
          ...
```

Following pattern must be followed to configure hooks for a particular flow
method:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    <login|registration|recovery|...>:
      <before or after>:
        <particular method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: <hook 1 name>
              <hook 1 specific configuration>
            - hook: <hook 2 name>
              <hook 2 specific configuration>
            ...
```

Hooks configured on a particular method level always override the hooks
configured on the flow level. So given the following example

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: hook_1
            # hook_1 specific configuration
      after:
        hooks:
          - hook: hook_2
            # hook_2 specific configuration
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: hook_3
              # hook_3 specific configuration
        # ...
```

`hook_1` is always run when the flow is started. On the finalization of the
flow, `hook_2` is not run for the `password` method, but for the `oidc` method
(for example). If the `password` method is used, then `hook_3` will run.

## All flows

Following hooks can be configured for all flows.

### Web-Hooks

Web-Hooks can be configured for every, but error and logout flow and can be
configured on either the before/after level or at the level of a particular
method. Support for Web-Hooks before execution of a method is currently
supported only for registration and login methods.

:::note

As of today Web-Hooks cannot control the execution of the flow by
patching/updating particular properties of flow specific object upon Web-Hook
completion. It will however cancel the execution of the flow if the call to the
Web-Hook end point fails either due to a network error or if the end point
responses with an HTTP code > 300.

:::

The configuration for a web-hook goes into the `hooks` property either on the
flow before/after, or the method level and has the following structure:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
- hook: web_hook
  config:
    url: https://test.kratos.ory.sh/after_verification_hook
    method: POST # GET, DELETE, etc
    body: file:///path/of/my/jsonnet/file
    auth:
      type: <some-type>
      config: <type-specific-config>
```

The configuration section of a web-hook consists of

- `url` - the url, the web-hook should call (mandatory)
- `method` - the HTTP method (GET, POST, ...), the web-hook should use
  (mandatory)
- `body` - URI of a jsonnet template, used by the web-hook to render the payload
  to send (optional). Use a `file://path/to/body.jsonnet` URL for referring to
  local files. This property is ignored for HTTP `method`s, which do not support
  sending of HTTP body payloads.
- `auth` - configuration of authentication and authorization mechanisms to be
  used by the web-hook

Web-Hooks bind the `flow`, as well as request headers (`request_headers`),
request method (`request_method`), and the request url (`request_url`) of the
flow into the jsonnet template for all methods and execution paths (before and
after). For the `after` execution path of all flows, it binds the `identity`
object into the jsonnet template as well. These objects are available through a
`ctx` object. E.g. to create a body looking like `{ user_id: <some-id> }` to be
send to the web hook end point, the jsonnet template would look like this:
`function(ctx) { user_id: ctx.identity.id }`

#### Web-Hook Authentication and Authorization Mechanisms

For `auth` following mechanisms are supported:

- Authentication via an Api Key. Type must be set to `api_key`.
- Authentication via Basic Authentication. Type must be set to `basic_auth`.

For `api_key` the config looks as follows:

```yaml
name: Some-Name
value: The-Value-of-My-Key
in: header # alternatively cookie
```

All properties are mandatory.

For `basic_auth` the config looks as follows:

```yaml
user: My-User
password: My-Pass-Value
```

All properties are mandatory.

## Login

Hooks running before or after successful user login are defined per Self-Service
Registration Method in ORY Kratos' configuration file.

### Before

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: web_hook
            # web-hook specific configuration
```

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: revoke_active_sessions
            - hook: require_verified_address
```

#### `revoke_active_sessions`

The `revoke_active_sessions` will delete all active sessions for that user on
successful login. This hook is available for all supported methods:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        <method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: revoke_active_sessions
              # can not be configured
```

#### `require_verified_address`

The `require_verified_address` will ensure, the user can login only if its email
address is verified. This hook is available for the `password` method only:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: require_verified_address
              # can not be configured
```

Please be aware, that since `require_verified_address` hook is enforcing a
verified address before the user can login, a typo in an email address done by
the user either during the registration or as part of a self service flow (email
change) will make the login for that user impossible. So you should think about
measures to prevent such situations, like requiring two email addresses being
configured by the user, thus having a backup if something goes wrong.

## Registration

Hooks running before or after successful user registration are defined per
Self-Service Registration Method in ORY Kratos' configuration file.

### Before

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: web_hook
            # web-hook specific configuration
```

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      after:
        oidc:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
```

#### `session`

Adding the `session` hook signs the user immediately in once the account has
been created. It runs after the identity has been saved to the database.

:::info

Using this job as part of your post-registration workflow makes your system
vulnerable to
[Account Enumeration Attacks](../concepts/security.mdx#account-enumeration-attacks)
because a threat agent can distinguish between existing and non-existing
accounts by checking if `Set-Cookie` was sent as part of the registration
response.

:::

To use this hook, you must first define one or more (for secret rotation)
secrets. You can either choose to use the "default" secrets or the more specific
"cookie" secrets. The other required config is setting the hook in `after` work
flows:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
secrets:
  cookie:
    - something-super-secret # The first entry will be used to sign and verify session cookies

    # All other entries will be used to verify session cookies that were signed before "something-super-secret" became
    # the current signing secret.
    - old-session-secret
    - older-session-secret
    - ancient-session-secret

selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      after:
        <method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
              # can not be configured
```

Depending on the registration flow type the behavior changes.

### Registration Flow via Browser

When performing a registration flow with a Browser, this hook sends a
`Set-Cookie` HTTP header which contains the session cookie.

Therefore, the user is logged in immediately.

### Registration Flow via API

When performing a registration flow with an API client (e.g. mobile apo), this
hook creates a session and returns the session token and the session itself in
the response body as application/json:

```json
{
  "session": {
    "id": "..."
    // ...
  },
  "session_token": "...",
  "identity": {
    "id": "..."
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::info

Because the HTTP reply is handled by the hook itself, no other hooks can be
executed because the HTTP reply can not be modified further (e.g. HTTP Status
Code was already sent as 200 and cannot be changed to 301). You must ensure that
the session hook is the last hook in your configuration!

:::

## Settings

Hooks running after successfully updating user settings and are defined per
Self-Service Settings Method in Ory Kratos' configuration file.

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    settings:
      after:
```

Only Web-Hooks hooks are available for this flow at the moment.

Commit message:

docs(kratos): non-blocking web hooks
See https://github.com/ory/kratos/pull/2266

docs/kratos/self-service/hooks.mdx, after:

---
id: hooks
title: Hooks
---

Hooks execute logic after a flow (login, registration, settings, ...):

- _Before login:_ is executed when a login flow starts.
- _After login:_ is executed after a successful identification and
  authentication of the user, but before the kratos session is created.
- _Before registration:_ is executed when a registration flow starts.
- _After registration:_ is executed when a registration was successful:
  - _Before persisting:_ runs before the identity is saved in the database.
  - _After persisting:_ runs after the identity was saved in the database.
- _After recovery:_ is executed after a password has been successfully
  recovered.
- _After settings:_ is executed when a settings was successful:
  - _Before persisting:_ runs before the identity is saved in the database.
  - _After persisting:_ runs after the identity was saved in the database.
- _After verification:_ is executed when the verification of an account was
  successful.

There are hooks, which can be configured only for a particular flow (login,
registration, settings, ...) method (password, oidc, profile) and hooks, which
can be configured for all methods of any flow.

To configure hooks for all methods of a particular flow, following pattern must
be used:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    <login|registration|recovery|...>:
      <before|after>:
        hooks:
          - hook: <hook 1 name>
            <hook 1 specific configuration>
          - hook: <hook 2 name>
            <hook 2 specific configuration>
          ...
```

Following pattern must be followed to configure hooks for a particular flow
method:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    <login|registration|recovery|...>:
      <before or after>:
        <particular method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: <hook 1 name>
              <hook 1 specific configuration>
            - hook: <hook 2 name>
              <hook 2 specific configuration>
            ...
```

Hooks configured on a particular method level always override the hooks
configured on the flow level. So given the following example

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: hook_1
            # hook_1 specific configuration
      after:
        hooks:
          - hook: hook_2
            # hook_2 specific configuration
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: hook_3
              # hook_3 specific configuration
        # ...
```

`hook_1` is always run when the flow is started. On the finalization of the
flow, `hook_2` is not run for the `password` method, but for the `oidc` method
(for example). If the `password` method is used, then `hook_3` will run.

## All flows

Following hooks can be configured for all flows.

### Web-Hooks

Web-Hooks can be configured for every, but error and logout flow and can be
configured on either the before/after level or at the level of a particular
method. Support for Web-Hooks before execution of a method is currently
supported only for registration and login methods.

:::note

As of today Web-Hooks cannot control the execution of the flow by
patching/updating particular properties of flow specific object upon Web-Hook
completion. It will however cancel the execution of the flow if the call to the
Web-Hook end point fails either due to a network error or if the end point
responses with an HTTP code > 300.

:::

The configuration for a web-hook goes into the `hooks` property either on the
flow before/after, or the method level and has the following structure:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
- hook: web_hook
  config:
    url: https://test.kratos.ory.sh/after_verification_hook
    method: POST # GET, DELETE, etc
    body: file:///path/of/my/jsonnet/file
    auth:
      type: <some-type>
      config: <type-specific-config>
```

The configuration section of a web-hook consists of

- `url` - the url, the web-hook should call (mandatory)
- `method` - the HTTP method (GET, POST, ...), the web-hook should use
  (mandatory)
- `body` - URI of a jsonnet template, used by the web-hook to render the payload
  to send (optional). Use a `file://path/to/body.jsonnet` URL for referring to
  local files. This property is ignored for HTTP `method`s, which do not support
  sending of HTTP body payloads.
- `auth` - configuration of authentication and authorization mechanisms to be
  used by the web-hook

Web-Hooks bind the `flow`, as well as request headers (`request_headers`),
request method (`request_method`), and the request url (`request_url`) of the
flow into the jsonnet template for all methods and execution paths (before and
after). For the `after` execution path of all flows, it binds the `identity`
object into the jsonnet template as well. These objects are available through a
`ctx` object. E.g. to create a body looking like `{ user_id: <some-id> }` to be
send to the web hook end point, the jsonnet template would look like this:
`function(ctx) { user_id: ctx.identity.id }`

#### Non-Blocking Web Hooks

Sometimes you need to notify a system without needing its response. For example,
when a user signs up and you want their email address to be added to the
newsletter you might not care about the response and favor the execution to be
non-blocking.

For those cases you can set `response.ignore` to `true` in your web-hook config:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml
- hook: web_hook
  config:
    response:
      ignore: true
```

#### Web-Hook Authentication and Authorization Mechanisms

For `auth` following mechanisms are supported:

- Authentication via an Api Key. Type must be set to `api_key`.
- Authentication via Basic Authentication. Type must be set to `basic_auth`.

For `api_key` the config looks as follows:

```yaml
name: Some-Name
value: The-Value-of-My-Key
in: header # alternatively cookie
```

All properties are mandatory.

For `basic_auth` the config looks as follows:

```yaml
user: My-User
password: My-Pass-Value
```

All properties are mandatory.

## Login

Hooks running before or after successful user login are defined per Self-Service
Registration Method in ORY Kratos' configuration file.

### Before

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: web_hook
            # web-hook specific configuration
```

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: revoke_active_sessions
            - hook: require_verified_address
```

#### `revoke_active_sessions`

The `revoke_active_sessions` will delete all active sessions for that user on
successful login. This hook is available for all supported methods:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        <method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: revoke_active_sessions
              # can not be configured
```

#### `require_verified_address`

The `require_verified_address` will ensure, the user can login only if its email
address is verified. This hook is available for the `password` method only:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    login:
      after:
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: require_verified_address
              # can not be configured
```

Please be aware, that since `require_verified_address` hook is enforcing a
verified address before the user can login, a typo in an email address done by
the user either during the registration or as part of a self service flow (email
change) will make the login for that user impossible. So you should think about
measures to prevent such situations, like requiring two email addresses being
configured by the user, thus having a backup if something goes wrong.

## Registration

Hooks running before or after successful user registration are defined per
Self-Service Registration Method in ORY Kratos' configuration file.

### Before

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      before:
        hooks:
          - hook: web_hook
            # web-hook specific configuration
```

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      after:
        oidc:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
        password:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
```

#### `session`

Adding the `session` hook signs the user immediately in once the account has
been created. It runs after the identity has been saved to the database.

:::info

Using this job as part of your post-registration workflow makes your system
vulnerable to
[Account Enumeration Attacks](../concepts/security.mdx#account-enumeration-attacks)
because a threat agent can distinguish between existing and non-existing
accounts by checking if `Set-Cookie` was sent as part of the registration
response.

:::

To use this hook, you must first define one or more (for secret rotation)
secrets. You can either choose to use the "default" secrets or the more specific
"cookie" secrets. The other required config is setting the hook in `after` work
flows:

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
secrets:
  cookie:
    - something-super-secret # The first entry will be used to sign and verify session cookies

    # All other entries will be used to verify session cookies that were signed before "something-super-secret" became
    # the current signing secret.
    - old-session-secret
    - older-session-secret
    - ancient-session-secret

selfservice:
  flows:
    registration:
      after:
        <method>:
          hooks:
            - hook: session
              # can not be configured
```

Depending on the registration flow type the behavior changes.

### Registration Flow via Browser

When performing a registration flow with a Browser, this hook sends a
`Set-Cookie` HTTP header which contains the session cookie.

Therefore, the user is logged in immediately.

### Registration Flow via API

When performing a registration flow with an API client (e.g. mobile apo), this
hook creates a session and returns the session token and the session itself in
the response body as application/json:

```json
{
  "session": {
    "id": "..."
    // ...
  },
  "session_token": "...",
  "identity": {
    "id": "..."
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::info

Because the HTTP reply is handled by the hook itself, no other hooks can be
executed because the HTTP reply can not be modified further (e.g. HTTP Status
Code was already sent as 200 and cannot be changed to 301). You must ensure that
the session hook is the last hook in your configuration!

:::

## Settings

Hooks running after successfully updating user settings and are defined per
Self-Service Settings Method in Ory Kratos' configuration file.

### After

```yaml title="path/to/my/kratos.config.yml"
selfservice:
  flows:
    settings:
      after:
```

Only Web-Hooks hooks are available for this flow at the moment.
